Luau gradual typing documentation (#35)
Roblox/creator-docs: content/en-us/luau/type-checking.md

---
title: Luau Typing
description: Luau uses gradual typing through the use
of type annotations and inference.
---

Luau uses a typing engine which gives every variable an inferred type.

```lua
local foo = "bar" --> string
local x = 5 --> number
```

> ## Defining a type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Defining a Type

```

A type can be defined using the `type` keyword

```lua
type Vector2 = {x: number, y: number}
```

## Inference Modes

> There are three type inference modes that Luau can use in [Script]()s

Reviewer 2: Instead of `[Script]()s`, use `Class.Script|Scripts`

* `--!nocheck` - Don't check types
* `--!nonstrict` - Default mode for all scripts, only asserts variable types if they are explicitly annotated
* `--!strict` - Asserts all types based off the inferred or explicitly annotated type

## Types

A type annoatation can be defined using the `:` operator after a variable, followed by a type definition, by default, in `nonstrict` mode, all variables are assigned the type `any`.

```lua
local foo: string = "bar"
local x: number = 5
```

There are 4 primitive types that can be used in an annotation:
* `nil` - no value
* `boolean` - `true`/`false` value
* `number` - a numeric value
* `string` - text

> Functions and tables are defined differently, and within Roblox, all `Instances` and `Enums` have their own types

Reviewer 2: Use `Class.Instance|Instances` and `DataType.Enums` instead here

```lua
part.Touched:Connect(function(otherPart: BasePart)
	local brickColor: Enum.BrickColor = otherPart.BrickColor
end)
```

An optional type can be defined using `?` at the end of the annotation.

```lua
local foo: string? = nil
```

## Function Typing

Assume the following function
```lua
local function add(x, y)
	return x + y
end
```

This is a fairly simple function where the behavior is well defined. Take the value of `x` and add it to `y`. However, nothing is stopping someone from using a `string` type in the `add` function, which causes an error.

> This is because Luau doesn't know that we want to use numbers in this function, lets rework this function such that it does constrain `x` and `y` to be numbers.

Reviewer 3: This should be attached to the sentence above either as part of the rephrase or as a separate thought.

```suggestion
This is because Luau doesn't know that we want to only use numbers in this function. Lets rework this function such that it does constrain `x` and `y` to be numbers.
```

Note that with the above change, the second sentence is too casual for documentation. You may want to rephrase this to state more directly what is to be done ("add number type annotations to x and y").

```lua
local function add(x: number, y: number)
	return x + y
end
```

> By adding type annotations to the parameters of the function, Luau now knows that the function takes two numbers, and throws a warning if you try to put anything into the function that isn't a number

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By adding type annotations to the parameters of the function, Luau now knows that the function takes two numbers and throws a warning if you try to pass anything that isn't a number into the function.
```

```lua
add(5, 10) -- ok
add(5, "foo") -- TypeError: Type `string` could not be converted into `number`.
```

> To define a return type, put a `:` operator at the end of the function definition

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To define a return type, put a `:` operator at the end of the function definition.
```

```lua
local function add(x: number, y: number): number
```

> To return multiple types, place all return types in brackets

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To return multiple types, place all return types in brackets.
```

```lua
local function FindSource(script: BaseScript, pattern: string): (string, number)
```

> ### Defining a functional type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Defining a Functional Type

```

> A functional type can be defined by using the syntax `(in) -> out`, for example, the type signatures of the functions above is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A functional type can be defined by using the syntax `(in) -> out`. Using the functions from the previous examples, the type signatures of the functions are:
```

In the future, IX (or you, if you continue to further contribute to the typechecking article) may want to poke around a bit at this one. Since the Creator Docs are meant for general consumption and are presenting the docs from Luau Lang high-level for developers of all skill levels to understand, "type signatures" may not be an easily understood term here. It may also be difficult to localise and for international users to figure out what that means as this is the only place in the article where the term is used.

```lua
type add = (x: number, y: number) -> number
type FindSource = (script: BaseScript, pattern: string) -> (string, number)
```

> ## Table types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Table Types

```

> Luau does not have a simple `table` type, instead, table types are defined using `{}` syntax. At the most basic level, a table can be defined with the syntax `{type}`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Luau does not have a `table` type. Instead, table types are defined using `{}` syntax. At the most basic level, a table can be defined with the syntax `{type}`.
```

"At the most basic level" may be worth rephrasing as it toes the line of an idiom that might not be easily understood when localised. I did not make a suggested change as I cannot find a better phrasing or determine if one is needed. Particularly I had trouble figuring out how to phrase this to indicate that this is only one way to type tables and to match the following introduction to index typing.

Author: ``One way of defining tables is using the `{type}` syntax which defines a list.``

I feel like this is a better rephrasing here

```lua
local numbers: {number} = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}
```

> Index types can be defined using `{[indexType] = valueType}`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Index types can be defined using `{[indexType] = valueType}`.
```

```lua

> local messagesFromPeople: {[string]: any} = {

Reviewer 3: If the type of value is any, it might be valuable to show two different types of values here that will pass the typecheck. Instead of two strings, consider one string and one number. No suggested change as this is not necessarily important to understanding index typings.

	Dave = "Hello",
	Cat = "meow"
}
```

> Tables can also have explicit string indicies defined in a type

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Tables can also have explicit string indices defined in a type.
```

```lua
type Car = {
	Speed: number,
	Drive: (Car) -> ()
}
```

## Variadics

> Lets assume a function that calculates the sum of a variadic ammount of numbers

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Lets assume a function that calculates the sum of a variadic amount of numbers.
```

Casual phrasing here, though I have no suggestions. Suggested change is for punctuation.

```lua
local function addLotsOfNumbers(...)
	local sum = 0

> 	for _, v in {...} does

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	for _, v in {...} do
```

Author: whoops

		sum += v
	end

	return sum
end
```

> As expected, this can take any value and wont complain if you give it an invalid type such as a `string`.

Reviewer 3: Casual phrasing - particularly the use of the word "complain" here doesn't sound like a good fit for docs.

```lua
print(addLotsOfNumbers(1, 2, 3, 4, 5)) -- 15
print(addLotsOfNumbers(1, 2, "3", 4, 5)) -- attempt to add string to number
```

> Instead, we can assign a type to the `...` just like how you'd assign any other type

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Instead, you can assign a type to `...` just like how you'd assign any other type.
```

Use of the word "we" refers to Roblox and implies a recommendation. Check style guide.

I did not make a suggestion against "just like how you'd assign any other type" though I do feel it could be chopped off or rephrased, though you can resolve this if you feel it's fine as it is.

```lua
local function addLotsOfNumbers(...: number)
```

> And now, the second line raises a type error

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
And now, the second line raises a type error.
```

```lua
print(addLotsOfNumbers(1, 2, 3, 4, 5))
print(addLotsOfNumbers(1, 2, "3", 4, 5)) -- TypeError: Type `string` could not be converted into `number`.
```

> However, with a type definition, the following statement does not work

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, with a type definition, the following statement does not work.
```

```lua
type addLotsOfNumbers = (...: number) -> number -- Expected type, got ':'
```

> Instead, use the syntax `...type` to define the variadic type

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Instead, use the syntax `...type` to define the variadic type.
```

```lua
type addLotsOfNumbers = (...number) -> number
```

## Unions and Intersections

> It is possible to define a type to be two or more types using a union or intersection

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is possible to define a type to be two or more types using a union or intersection.
```

Needs a newline separating the header and text for consistency with the rest of the article and other creator docs.

```lua
type NumberOrString = number | string
type Object1 = {foo: string}
type Object2 = {bar: number}
type Object1and2 = Object1 & Object2 -- {foo: string} & {bar: number}
```

> ## Defining an inferred type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Defining an Inferred Type

```

> The `typeof` function can be used in a type definition to define an inferred type

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `typeof` function can be used in a type definition to define an inferred type.
```

```lua
type Car = typeof {
	Speed = 0,
	Wheels = 4
} --> Car: {Speed: number, Wheels: number}
```

> One interesting use is to define a metatable type using `setmetatable` inside `typeof`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One interesting use is to define a metatable type using `setmetatable` inside `typeof`.
```

Casual phrasing. Consider "one way to use" or other equivalent phrasing if you think it's needed.

```lua
type Vector = typeof(setmetatable({}::{
	x: number,
	y: number
}, {}::{
	__add: (Vector, Vector|number) -> Vector
}))

-- Vector + Vector would return a Vector type
```

## Generics

> Generics allow you to define at a most basic level, substitution types. Lets assume a basic object that creates a State keyword

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Generics allow you to define at a most basic level, substitution types. Lets assume a basic object that creates a State keyword.
```

Separate header and text with a newline.

```lua
local State = {

> 	Key = "TimesClickec",

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	Key = "TimesClicked",
```

	Value = 0
}
```

> The type for this state object without generics would be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The type for this state object without generics would be:
```

Separate code block and text with a newline.

```lua
type State = {
	Key: string,
	Value: number
}
```

However, you may want to `Value` to be a type based on the incoming value, this can be done with generics. Generic types use the following basic shape:

```lua
type GenericType<T> = T
```

> The `<T>` denotes a type that can be set to anything. The best way to visualise this is as a substitution type. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `<T>` denotes a type that can be set to anything. The best way to visualize this is as a substitution type. 
```

```lua
type List<T> = {T}

local Names: List<string> = {"Bob", "Dan", "Mary"}
local Fibbonacci: List<number> = {1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13}
```

> Generics can also have multiple substitutions inside the brackets

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Generics can also have multiple substitutions inside the brackets.
```

```lua
type Map<K, V> = {[K]: V}
```

> Using the state object above, it can be reworked to use a generic type as such

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using the state object above, it can be reworked to use a generic type.
```

```lua
type State<T> = {
	Key: string,
	Value: T
}
```

### Function Generics

> Functions can also use generics, however, they behave a little differently when inference is introduced into it

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Functions can also use generics, however, they behave a little differently when inference is introduced into it.
```

> Using the State example again, it can be designed to infer the value of T from the function's incoming arguments

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using the State example again, it can be designed to infer the value of `T` from the function's incoming arguments.
```

This can be merged to the sentence above.

```lua
local function State<T>(key: string, value: T): State<T>
	return {
		Key = key,
		Value = value
	}
end

local Activated = State("Activated", false) -- State<boolean>
local TimesClicked = State("TimesClicked", 0) -- State<number>
```

### Type Packs

Type packs are an extension to variadics that allow the definition of generic variadics inside functions.

```lua
type Event<A...> = {
	Fire: (Event<A...>, A...)
	Connect: (Event<A...>, func: (A...) -> ())
}

-- the event can be defined with as many types as you want
local ChangedSignal: Event<string, any>

ChangedSignal:Connect(function(changedName, changedValue)
	-- changedName will be defined as a string
	-- changedValue will be defined as any
end)

ChangedSignal:Fire("Size", Vector2.new(100, 50)) --> ok
ChangedSignal:Fire(20, 100) --> not ok, number cannot be converted to string
```

> Type packs are defined in functions using `...` on the right-hand side of a generic

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Type packs are defined in functions using `...` on the right-hand side of a generic.
```

```lua
local function Signal<A...>(f: (A...) -> (), ...: A...)
```

## Type Exports

> Types can be exported through [ModuleScript]() using the `export` keyword infront of a type definition

Reviewer 2: Use `Class.ModuleScript` instead of `[ModuleScript]()`

> Types can be exported through `Class.ModuleScript` using the `export` keyword infront of a type definition

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Types can be exported through `Class.ModuleScript|ModuleScripts` using the `export` keyword infront of a type definition.
```

In the following code blocks, you may want to use titles and/or text to indicate that they belong to two different ModuleScripts rather than have the reader assume that from there being two separate code blocks. This will also convey the information better when localised so assumptions don't have to be made.

Author: I wonder how I could do this actually, I'm not really sure about this specific one

Reviewer 3: You can assign titles to code blocks with the title parameter: `lua title="ModuleScript 1"`

Check out [scripts.md (raw)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Roblox/creator-docs/main/content/en-us/scripting/scripts.md) and the corresponding [scripts article on the Docs Site](https://create.roblox.com/docs/scripting/scripts) for an example of how it renders. "Example Module Script" is what you'll want to find.

---

> title: Luau Typing

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
title: Luau Type Checking
```

description: Luau uses gradual typing through the use of type annotations and inference.
---

Luau uses a typing engine which gives every variable an inferred type.

```lua
local foo = "bar" --> string
local x = 5 --> number
```

## Defining a Type

> A type can be defined using the `type` keyword.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A type can be defined using the `type` keyword:
```

```lua
type Vector2 = {x: number, y: number}
```

## Inference Modes

There are three type inference modes that Luau can use in `Class.Script|Scripts`:

* `--!nocheck` - Don't check types
* `--!nonstrict` - Default mode for all scripts, only asserts variable types if they are explicitly annotated
* `--!strict` - Asserts all types based off the inferred or explicitly annotated type

## Types

A type annotation can be defined using the `:` operator after a variable, followed by a type definition. By default, in `nonstrict` mode, all variables are assigned the type `any`.

```lua
local foo: string = "bar"
local x: number = 5
```

There are 4 primitive types that can be used in an annotation:
* `nil` - no value
* `boolean` - `true`/`false` value
* `number` - a numeric value
* `string` - text

Functions and tables are defined differently, and within Roblox, all `Class.Instance|Instances` and `DataType.Enums` have their own types.

```lua
part.Touched:Connect(function(otherPart: BasePart)
	local brickColor: Enum.BrickColor = otherPart.BrickColor
end)
```

An optional type can be defined using `?` at the end of the annotation.

```lua
local foo: string? = nil
```

### Literal Types

> Strings and booleans can also be casted to literal values, instead of using `string` and `boolean` respectively.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Strings and booleans can also be cast to literal values, instead of using `string` and `boolean` respectively.
```
Is the second part required?

```lua
local alwaysHelloWorld: "Hello World!" = "Hello World!"
local alwaysTrue: true = false -- TypeError: Type 'false' could not be converted into 'true'

alwaysHelloWorld = "Goodbye World!" -- TypeError: Type '"Goodbyte World"' could not be into '"Hello World!"'
```

### Type Casts

> Sometimes, you may need to assist the typechecker by changing the type of a value using type casts, this can be done with the `::` operator.

Reviewer 4: Not colon related
```suggestion
Sometimes, you may need to assist the typechecker by changing the type of a value using type casts. This can be done with the `::` operator.
```

```lua

> local numericValue  = 1

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
local numericValue = 1
```

local value = numericValue :: any -- ok, all expressions may be cast to 'any'
local flag = numericValue :: boolean -- not ok, invalid 'number' to 'boolean' conversion
```

## Function Typing

Assume the following function:

```lua
local function add(x, y)
	return x + y
end
```

> This function will add x to y, however it might error if a string is given to this function, Luau doesn't know that this function can only use numbers, lets rework this function such that it does constrain `x` and `y` to be numbers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This function adds `x` to `y`, but will error if a string is passed as an argument. Luau doesn't know that this function can only use numbers, so lets type this function to constrain `x` and `y` as numbers.
```

Maybe someone else could rephrase this better; it still sounds kinda weird to me.

```lua
local function add(x: number, y: number): number
```

To return multiple types, place all return types in brackets.

```lua
local function FindSource(script: BaseScript, pattern: string): (string, number)
```

### Defining a Functional Type

A functional type can be defined by using the syntax `(in) -> out`. Using the functions from the previous examples, the types of the functions are:

```lua
type add = (x: number, y: number) -> number
type FindSource = (script: BaseScript, pattern: string) -> (string, number)
```

## Table Types

Luau does not have a `table` type, instead, table types are defined using `{}` syntax. One way of defining tables is using the `{type}` syntax, which defines a list type.

```lua
local numbers: {number} = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}
local characterParts: {Instance} = LocalPlayer.Character:GetChildren()
```

Index types can be defined using `{[indexType] = valueType}`.

```lua
local frobulator: {[string]: any} = {
	Foo = "bar",
	Baz = 10
}
```

Tables can also have explicit string indices defined in a type.

```lua
type Car = {
	Speed: number,
	Drive: (Car) -> ()
}
```

## Variadics

> Here's a function that calculates the sum of a variadic amount of numbers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Here's a function that calculates the sum of an arbitrary amount of numbers.
```
I don't think saying 'a variadic amount' would be correct. Clarifying could also help readers infer what variadics are.

```lua
local function addLotsOfNumbers(...)
	local sum = 0

	for _, v in {...} do
		sum += v
	end

	return sum
end
```

> As expected, this can take any value, and the typechecker wont raise a warning if you give it an invalid type, such as a `string`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As expected, this can take any value, and the typechecker won't raise a warning if you give it an invalid type, such as a `string`.

```

```lua
print(addLotsOfNumbers(1, 2, 3, 4, 5)) -- 15
print(addLotsOfNumbers(1, 2, "3", 4, 5)) -- attempt to add string to number
```

Instead, it is possible to assign a type to the `...`, just like how other types are assigned.

```lua
local function addLotsOfNumbers(...: number)
```

And now, the second line raises a type error.

```lua
print(addLotsOfNumbers(1, 2, 3, 4, 5))
print(addLotsOfNumbers(1, 2, "3", 4, 5)) -- TypeError: Type `string` could not be converted into `number`.
```

However, with a type definition, the following statement does not work.

```lua
type addLotsOfNumbers = (...: number) -> number -- Expected type, got ':'
```

> Instead, use the syntax `...type` to define the variadic type.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Instead, use the syntax `...type` to define a variadic type.
```

```lua
type Vector = typeof(setmetatable({}::{
	x: number,
	y: number
}, {}::{
	__add: (Vector, Vector|number) -> Vector
}))

-- Vector + Vector would return a Vector type
```

## Generics

Generics allow you to define at a most basic level, substitution types. Lets assume a basic object that creates a State object.

```lua
local State = {
	Key = "TimesClicked",
	Value = 0
}
```

The type for this state object without generics would be.

```lua
type State = {
	Key: string,
	Value: number
}
```

However, you may want `Value` to be a type based on the incoming value, this can be done with generics. Generic types use the following basic shape:

```lua
type GenericType<T> = T
```

The `<T>` denotes a type that can be set to anything. The best way to visualize this is as a substitution type. 

```lua
type List<T> = {T}

local Names: List<string> = {"Bob", "Dan", "Mary"}
local Fibbonacci: List<number> = {1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13}
```

Generics can also have multiple substitutions inside the brackets.

```lua
type Map<K, V> = {[K]: V}
```

Using the state object above, it can be reworked to use a generic type.

```lua
type State<T> = {
	Key: string,
	Value: T
}
```

### Function Generics

> Functions can also use generics, however, they behave differently when inference is introduced into it, using the State example again, it can be designed to infer the value of `T`, from the function's incoming arguments.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Functions can also use generics. The State example can infer the value of `T` from the function's incoming arguments.
```

> they behave differently when inference is introduced

Not entirely sure what is meant by this

Author: This could probably do an entire rephrase. The feature here is that the type of `T` is inferred from what's given to the function outside.

As the code example shows better, if I pass a `string` into a function such that has a type of `(T) -> State<T>`, the State will become `string`.

I'll suggest my own idea in a second

A generic function is defined by adding a `<>` to the right of the function name.

```lua
local function State<T>(key: string, value: T): State<T>
	return {
		Key = key,
		Value = value
	}
end

local Activated = State("Activated", false) -- State<boolean>
local TimesClicked = State("TimesClicked", 0) -- State<number>
```

### Type Packs

Type packs are an extension to variadics that allow the definition of generic variadics inside functions.

```lua
type Event<A...> = {
	Fire: (Event<A...>, A...)
	Connect: (Event<A...>, func: (A...) -> ())
}

-- the event can be defined with as many types as you want
local ChangedSignal: Event<string, any>

ChangedSignal:Connect(function(changedName, changedValue)
	-- changedName will be defined as a string
	-- changedValue will be defined as any
end)

ChangedSignal:Fire("Size", Vector2.new(100, 50)) --> ok
ChangedSignal:Fire(20, 100) --> not ok, number cannot be converted to string
```

Type packs are defined in functions using `...` on the right-hand side of a generic.

```lua
local function Signal<A...>(f: (A...) -> (), ...: A...)
```

## Type Exports

> Types can be exported through `Class.ModuleScript` using the `export` keyword infront of a type definition.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Types can be exported from a `Class.ModuleScript` using the `export` keyword.
```

---
title: Luau Type Checking
description: Luau uses gradual typing through the use of type annotations and inference.
---

Luau uses a typing engine which gives every variable an inferred type.

```lua
local foo = "bar" --> string
local x = 5 --> number
```

## Defining a Type

A type can be defined using the `type` keyword.

```lua
type Vector2 = {x: number, y: number}
```

## Inference Modes

There are three type inference modes that Luau can use in `Class.Script|Scripts`:

> * `--!nocheck` - Don't check types

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- `--!nocheck` - Don't check types

```

```lua
add(5, 10) -- ok
add(5, "foo") -- TypeError: Type `string` could not be converted into `number`.
```

To define a return type, put a `:` operator at the end of the function definition.

```lua
local function add(x: number, y: number): number
```

To return multiple types, place all return types in brackets.

```lua
local function FindSource(script: BaseScript, pattern: string): (string, number)
```

### Defining a Functional Type

A functional type can be defined by using the syntax `(in) -> out`. Using the functions from the previous examples, the types of the functions are:

```lua
type add = (x: number, y: number) -> number
type FindSource = (script: BaseScript, pattern: string) -> (string, number)
```

## Table Types

Luau does not have a `table` type, instead, table types are defined using `{}` syntax. One way of defining tables is using the `{type}` syntax, which defines a list type.

```lua
local numbers: {number} = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}
local characterParts: {Instance} = LocalPlayer.Character:GetChildren()
```

> Index types can be defined using `{[indexType] = valueType}`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Define index types using `{[indexType]: valueType}`:

```

```

Instead, it is possible to assign a type to the `...`, just like how other types are assigned.

```lua
local function addLotsOfNumbers(...: number)
```

And now, the second line raises a type error.

```lua
print(addLotsOfNumbers(1, 2, 3, 4, 5))
print(addLotsOfNumbers(1, 2, "3", 4, 5)) -- TypeError: Type `string` could not be converted into `number`.
```

However, with a type definition, the following statement does not work.

```lua
type addLotsOfNumbers = (...: number) -> number -- Expected type, got ':'
```

Instead, use the syntax `...type` to define a variadic type.

```lua
type addLotsOfNumbers = (...number) -> number
```

## Unions and Intersections

It is possible to define a type to be two or more types, using a union or intersection.

```lua
type NumberOrString = number | string
type Object1 = {foo: string}
type Object2 = {bar: number}
type Object1and2 = Object1 & Object2 -- {foo: string} & {bar: number}
```

## Defining an Inferred Type

The `typeof` function can be used in a type definition to define an inferred type.

```lua
type Car = typeof {
	Speed = 0,
	Wheels = 4
} --> Car: {Speed: number, Wheels: number}
```

> One way to use `typeof`, is to define a metatable type using `setmetatable` inside the `typeof` function.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
One way to use `typeof` is to define a metatable type using `setmetatable` inside the `typeof` function:
```

```lua
type Vector = typeof(setmetatable({}::{
	x: number,
	y: number
}, {}::{
	__add: (Vector, Vector|number) -> Vector
}))

> -- Vector + Vector would return a Vector type

Reviewer 5: I'm super unclear about what's going on here. Can we create a couple of these, add them together, and show the output...?

```

## Generics

> Generics allow you to define at a most basic level, substitution types. Lets assume a basic object that creates a State object.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Generics allow you to define, at a basic level, substitution types. Consider the following `State` object:
```

```lua
local State = {
	Key = "TimesClicked",
	Value = 0
}
```

> The type for this state object without generics would be.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Without generics, the type for this object would be as follows:
```

```lua
type State = {
	Key: string,
	Value: number
}
```

> However, you may want `Value` to be a type based on the incoming value, this can be done with generics. Generic types use the following basic shape:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
However, you might want the type for `Value` to be based on the incoming value, which is where generics come in:
```

```lua
type GenericType<T> = T
```

The `<T>` denotes a type that can be set to anything. The best way to visualize this is as a substitution type. 

```lua
type List<T> = {T}

local Names: List<string> = {"Bob", "Dan", "Mary"}
local Fibbonacci: List<number> = {1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13}
```

Generics can also have multiple substitutions inside the brackets.

```lua
type Map<K, V> = {[K]: V}
```

> Using the state object above, it can be reworked to use a generic type.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To rework the `State` object from earlier to use a generic type:
```

```lua
type State<T> = {
	Key: string,
	Value: T
}
```

### Function Generics

> Functions can also use generics. The State example can infer the value of `T` from the function's incoming arguments.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Functions can also use generics. The `State` example infers the value of `T` from the function's incoming arguments.
```

> A generic function is defined by adding a `<>` to the right of the function name.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To define a generic function, add a `<>` to the function name:
```

```lua
local function State<T>(key: string, value: T): State<T>
	return {
		Key = key,
		Value = value
	}
end

local Activated = State("Activated", false) -- State<boolean>
local TimesClicked = State("TimesClicked", 0) -- State<number>
```

### Type Packs

Type packs are an extension to variadics that allow the definition of generic variadics inside functions.

```lua
type Event<A...> = {
	Fire: (Event<A...>, A...)
	Connect: (Event<A...>, func: (A...) -> ())

> }

Reviewer 5: This isn't working for me as-written. Can you double-check it?

-- the event can be defined with as many types as you want
local ChangedSignal: Event<string, any>

ChangedSignal:Connect(function(changedName, changedValue)
	-- changedName will be defined as a string
	-- changedValue will be defined as any
end)

ChangedSignal:Fire("Size", Vector2.new(100, 50)) --> ok
ChangedSignal:Fire(20, 100) --> not ok, number cannot be converted to string
```

> Type packs are defined in functions using `...` on the right-hand side of a generic.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To define a type pack, add `...` to the right side of a generic:
```

```lua
local function Signal<A...>(f: (A...) -> (), ...: A...)
```

## Type Exports

> Types can be exported from a `Class.ModuleScript` using the `export` keyword.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To export a type from a `Class.ModuleScript`, use the `export` keyword:
```

```lua title="Types Module in ReplicatedStorage"
export type Cat = {
	Name: string,
	Meow: (Cat) -> ()
}
```

```lua title="Script that uses the Types module"

> local Types = require(ReplicatedStorage.Types)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
local ReplicatedStorage = game:GetService("ReplicatedStorage")
local Types = require(ReplicatedStorage.Types)
```

local newCat: Types.Cat = {
	Name = "metatablecat",
	Meow = function(self)
		print(`{self.Name} said meow`)
	end

> }

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
}

newCat:Meow()
```

Reviewer 5: We have to make sure you're mentioned. 😄

---
title: Luau Type Checking
description: Luau uses gradual typing through the use of type annotations and inference.
---

Luau uses a typing engine that gives every variable an inferred type.

```lua
local foo = "bar" --> string
local x = 5 --> number
```

## Defining a Type

Use the `type` keyword to define your own types:

```lua
type Vector2 = {x: number, y: number}
```

## Inference Modes

There are three type inference modes that Luau can use in `Class.Script|Scripts`:

- `--!nocheck` - Don't check types
- `--!nonstrict` - Default mode for all scripts, only asserts variable types if they are explicitly annotated
- `--!strict` - Asserts all types based off the inferred or explicitly annotated type

To use the non-default modes, add `--!nocheck` or `--!strict` to the top of your scripts. Studio highlights type mismatches in the editor and surfaces them as warnings in the Script Analyzer window.

## Types

> A type annotation can be defined using the `:` operator after a variable, followed by a type definition. By default, in `nonstrict` mode, all variables are assigned the type `any`.

Author: Forgot you cant use type defs in global vars because its ambigious with `t:method()` syntax

```lua
type GenericType<T> = T
```

The `<T>` denotes a type that can be set to anything. The best way to visualize this is as a substitution type.

```lua
type List<T> = {T}

local Names: List<string> = {"Bob", "Dan", "Mary"}
local Fibbonacci: List<number> = {1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13}
```

Generics can also have multiple substitutions inside the brackets.

```lua
type Map<K, V> = {[K]: V}
```

To rework the `State` object from earlier to use a generic type:

```lua
type State<T> = {
	Key: string,
	Value: T
}
```

### Function Generics

Functions can also use generics. The `State` example infers the value of `T` from the function's incoming arguments.

To define a generic function, add a `<>` to the function name:

```lua
local function State<T>(key: string, value: T): State<T>
	return {
		Key = key,
		Value = value
	}
end

local Activated = State("Activated", false) -- State<boolean>
local TimesClicked = State("TimesClicked", 0) -- State<number>
```

### Type Packs

Type packs are an extension to variadics that allow the definition of generic variadics inside functions.

```lua
type Event<A...> = {
	Fire: (Event<A...>, A...)
	Connect: (Event<A...>, func: (A...) -> ())

> }

Author: Type packs do look messy, I wonder how they can be approached without being too hard to read

```lua
type Event<A...> = {
	Fire: (Event<A...>, A...)
	Connect: (Event<A...>, func: (A...) -> ())
}

-- the event can be defined with as many types as you want
local ChangedSignal: Event<string, any>

ChangedSignal:Connect(function(changedName, changedValue)
	-- changedName will be defined as a string
	-- changedValue will be defined as any
end)

ChangedSignal:Fire("Size", Vector2.new(100, 50)) --> ok
ChangedSignal:Fire(20, 100) --> not ok, number cannot be converted to string
```

To define a type pack, add `...` to the right side of a generic:

```lua
local function Signal<A...>(f: (A...) -> (), ...: A...)
```

## Type Exports

To export a type from a `Class.ModuleScript`, use the `export` keyword:

```lua title="Types Module in ReplicatedStorage"
export type Cat = {
	Name: string,
	Meow: (Cat) -> ()
}
```

```lua title="Script that uses the Types module"
local ReplicatedStorage = game:GetService("ReplicatedStorage")
local ReplicatedStorage = game:GetService("ReplicatedStorage")
local Types = require(ReplicatedStorage.Types)

local newCat: Types.Cat = {
	Name = "metatablecat",
	Meow = function(self)
		print(`{self.Name} said meow`)
	end
}

newCat:Meow()

> 
> newCat:Meow()

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

```lua
local foo = "bar" --> string
local x = 5 --> number
```

## Defining a Type

Use the `type` keyword to define your own types:

```lua
type Vector2 = {x: number, y: number}
```

## Inference Modes

There are three type inference modes that Luau can use in `Class.Script|Scripts`:

- `--!nocheck` - Don't check types
- `--!nonstrict` - Default mode for all scripts, only asserts variable types if they are explicitly annotated
- `--!strict` - Asserts all types based off the inferred or explicitly annotated type

The default mode for the type checker is `--!nonstrict`. To use a different mode, put `--!strict` or `--!nocheck` at the top of your script. These modes control how strict the type checker is with inferring and checking types for variables and functions. Any type mismatches in scripts are highlighted in the Script Editor and surfaced as warnings in the Script Analyzer window.

## Types

A type annotation can be defined using the `:` operator after a local variable, followed by a type definition. By default, in `nonstrict` mode, all variables are assigned the type `any`.

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

```lua
local function add(x: number, y: number): number
```

To return multiple types, place the types in parentheses:

```lua
local function FindSource(script: BaseScript, pattern: string): (string, number)
	return 42, true -- type errors
end
```

### Defining a Functional Type

A functional type can be defined by using the syntax `(in) -> out`. Using the functions from the previous examples, the types of the functions are:

```lua
type add = (x: number, y: number) -> number
type FindSource = (script: BaseScript, pattern: string) -> (string, number)
```

## Table Types

Luau does not have a `table` type, instead, table types are defined using `{}` syntax. One way of defining tables is using the `{type}` syntax, which defines a list type.

```lua
local numbers: {number} = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}
local characterParts: {Instance} = LocalPlayer.Character:GetChildren()
```

Define index types using `{[indexType]: valueType}`:

```lua
local numberList: {[string]: number} = {
	Foo = 1,
	Baz = 10
}
numberList["bar"] = true -- type error, boolean can't convert to number
}
```

Tables can also have explicit string indices defined in a type.

```lua

> type Car = {
> 	Speed: number,
> 	Drive: (Car) -> ()
> }

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
type Car = {
	Speed: number,
	Drive: (Car) -> ()
}

local taxi: Car = {Speed = 30, Drive = drive}

function drive(car)
	-- always go the speed limit
end
```

```

## Variadics

Here's a function that calculates the sum of an arbitrary amount of numbers:

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

```

Instead, assign a type to the `...`, just like how you assign any other type:

```lua
local function addLotsOfNumbers(...: number)
```

And now, the second line raises a type error.

```lua
print(addLotsOfNumbers(1, 2, 3, 4, 5))
print(addLotsOfNumbers(1, 2, "car", 4, 5)) -- TypeError: Type `string` could not be converted into `number`.

```

However, with a type definition, the following statement does not work:

```lua
type addLotsOfNumbers = (...: number) -> number -- Expected type, got ':'
```

Instead, use the syntax `...type` to define a variadic type.

```lua
type addLotsOfNumbers = (...number) -> number
```

## Unions and Intersections

You can even define a type as two or more types using a union or intersection:

```lua
type numberOrString = number | string
type type1 = {foo: string}
type type2 = {bar: number}
type type1and2 = type1 & type2 -- {foo: string} & {bar: number}

local numString1: numberOrString = true -- type error
local numString2: type1and2 = {foo = "hello", bar = 1}
```

## Defining an Inferred Type

You can use the `typeof` function in a type definition for inferred types:

```lua

> type Car = typeof {
> 	Speed = 0,
> 	Wheels = 4
> } --> Car: {Speed: number, Wheels: number}

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
type Car = typeof({
	Speed = 0,
	Wheels = 4
}) --> Car: {Speed: number, Wheels: number}
```

```lua
type State = {
	Key: string,
	Value: number
}
```

However, you might want the type for `Value` to be based on the incoming value, which is where generics come in:

```lua
type GenericType<T> = T
```

The `<T>` denotes a type that can be set to anything. The best way to visualize this is as a substitution type.

```lua
type List<T> = {T}

local Names: List<string> = {"Bob", "Dan", "Mary"} -- type becomes {string}
local Fibbonacci: List<number> = {1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13} -- type becomes {number}
```

Generics can also have multiple substitutions inside the brackets.

```lua
type Map<K, V> = {[K]: V}
```

To rework the `State` object from earlier to use a generic type:

```lua
type State<T> = {
	Key: string,
	Value: T
}
```

### Function Generics

Functions can also use generics. The `State` example infers the value of `T` from the function's incoming arguments.

To define a generic function, add a `<>` to the function name:

```lua
local function State<T>(key: string, value: T): State<T>
	return {
		Key = key,
		Value = value
	}
end

local Activated = State("Activated", false) -- State<boolean>
local TimesClicked = State("TimesClicked", 0) -- State<number>
```

> ### Type Packs
> 
> Type packs are an extension to variadics that allow the definition of generic variadics inside functions.
> 
> ```lua
> type Event<A...> = {
> 	Fire: (Event<A...>, A...)
> 	Connect: (Event<A...>, func: (A...) -> ())
> }
> 
> -- the event can be defined with as many types as you want
> local ChangedSignal: Event<string, any>
> 
> ChangedSignal:Connect(function(changedName, changedValue)
> 	-- changedName will be defined as a string
> 	-- changedValue will be defined as any
> end)
> 
> ChangedSignal:Fire("Size", Vector2.new(100, 50)) --> ok
> ChangedSignal:Fire(20, 100) --> not ok, number cannot be converted to string
> ```
> 
> To define a type pack, add `...` to the right side of a generic:
> 
> ```lua
> local function Signal<A...>(f: (A...) -> (), ...: A...)
> ```
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Luau Type Checking
description: Luau uses gradual typing through the use of type annotations and inference.
---

Luau uses a typing engine that gives every variable an inferred type.

```lua
local foo = "bar" --> string
local x = 5 --> number
```

## Defining a Type

Use the `type` keyword to define your own types:

```lua
type Vector2 = {x: number, y: number}
```

## Inference Modes

There are three type inference modes that Luau can use in `Class.Script|Scripts`:

* `--!nocheck` - Don't check types

> * `--!nonstrict` - Default mode for all scripts, only asserts variable types if they are explicitly annotated

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- `--!nonstrict` - Default mode for all scripts, only asserts variable types if they are explicitly annotated

```

> * `--!strict` - Asserts all types based off the inferred or explicitly annotated type

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- `--!strict` - Asserts all types based off the inferred or explicitly annotated type

```

To use the non-default modes, add `--!nocheck` or `--!strict` to the top of your scripts. Studio highlights type mismatches in the editor and surfaces them as warnings in the Script Analyzer window.

## Types

A type annotation can be defined using the `:` operator after a variable, followed by a type definition. By default, in `nonstrict` mode, all variables are assigned the type `any`.

```lua
local foo: string = "bar"
local x: number = 5
```

There are four primitive types that can be used in an annotation:

> * `nil` - no value

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- `nil` - no value

```

- `boolean` - `true` or `false`

> * `number` - a numeric value

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- `number` - a numeric value
```

> * `string` - text

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- `string` - text
```

```lua
type add = (x: number, y: number) -> number
type FindSource = (script: BaseScript, pattern: string) -> (string, number)
```

## Table Types

Luau does not have a `table` type, instead, table types are defined using `{}` syntax. One way of defining tables is using the `{type}` syntax, which defines a list type.

```lua
local numbers: {number} = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}
local characterParts: {Instance} = LocalPlayer.Character:GetChildren()
```

Define index types using `{[indexType]: valueType}`:

```lua
local frobulator: {[string]: number} = {
	Foo = 1,
	Baz = 10
}
frobulator["bar"] = true -- type error, boolean can't convert to number
}
```

Tables can also have explicit string indices defined in a type.

```lua
type Car = {
	Speed: number,
	Drive: (Car) -> ()
}
```

## Variadics

Here's a function that calculates the sum of an arbitrary amount of numbers.

```lua
local function addLotsOfNumbers(...)
	local sum = 0

	for _, v in {...} do
		sum += v
	end

	return sum
end
```

As expected, this function can take any value, and the typechecker won't raise a warning if you provide an invalid type, such as a `string`.

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Luau Type Checking
description: Luau uses gradual typing through the use of type annotations and inference.
---

Luau uses a typing engine that gives every variable an inferred type.

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

local x = 5 --> number
```

## Defining a Type

Use the `type` keyword to define your own types:

```lua
type Vector2 = {x: number, y: number}
```

## Inference Modes

There are three type inference modes that Luau can use in `Class.Script|Scripts`:

- `--!nocheck` - Don't check types
- `--!nonstrict` - Default mode for all scripts, only asserts variable types if they are explicitly annotated
- `--!strict` - Asserts all types based off the inferred or explicitly annotated type

To use the non-default modes, add `--!nocheck` or `--!strict` to the top of your scripts. Studio highlights type mismatches in the editor and surfaces them as warnings in the Script Analyzer window.

## Types

A type annotation can be defined using the `:` operator after a variable, followed by a type definition. By default, in `nonstrict` mode, all variables are assigned the type `any`.

```lua
local foo: string = "bar"
local x: number = 5
```

There are four primitive types that can be used in an annotation:

- `nil` - no value
- `boolean` - `true` or `false`
- `number` - a numeric value
- `string` - text

Within Roblox, all classes, data types, and enums have their own types that you can check against:

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

```lua
local somePart: Part = Instance.new("Part")
local brickColor: BrickColor = somePart.BrickColor
local material: Enum.Material = somePart.Material
```

To add an optional type, use a `?` at the end of the annotation:

```lua
local foo: string? = nil
```

### Literal Types

You can also cast strings and booleans to literal values instead of using `string` and `boolean`:

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

```lua
local alwaysHelloWorld: "Hello world!" = "Hello world!"
alwaysHelloWorld = "Just hello!" -- Type Error: Type '"Just hello!"' could not be into '"Hello world!"'

local alwaysTrue: true = false -- Type Error: Type 'false' could not be converted into 'true'
```

### Type Casts

Sometimes, you might need to assist the typechecker by explicitly casting a value to a different type with the `::` operator:

```lua
local myNumber = 1
local myString: string

myString = myNumber -- not ok, type conversion error
myString = myNumber :: any -- ok, all expressions can be cast to 'any'
local myFlag = myNumber :: boolean -- not ok, types are unrelated
```

## Function Typing

Consider the following function:

```lua
local function add(x, y)
	return x + y
end
```

This function adds `x` to `y`, but errors if one or both of them is a string. Luau doesn't know that this function can only use numbers. To prevent this category of problem, add types to the parameters:

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

```lua
add(5, 10) -- ok
add(5, "foo") -- TypeError: Type `string` could not be converted into `number`.
```

To define a return type, put a `:` operator at the end of the function definition:

```lua
local function add(x: number, y: number): number
```

To return multiple types, place the types in parentheses:

```lua
local function FindSource(script: BaseScript, pattern: string): (string, number)
	return 42, true -- type errors
end
```

### Defining a Functional Type

A functional type can be defined by using the syntax `(in) -> out`. Using the functions from the previous examples, the types of the functions are:

```lua
type add = (x: number, y: number) -> number
type FindSource = (script: BaseScript, pattern: string) -> (string, number)
```

## Table Types

Luau does not have a `table` type, instead, table types are defined using `{}` syntax. One way of defining tables is using the `{type}` syntax, which defines a list type.

```lua
local numbers: {number} = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}
local characterParts: {Instance} = LocalPlayer.Character:GetChildren()
```

Define index types using `{[indexType]: valueType}`:

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

```lua
local frobulator: {[string]: number} = {
	Foo = 1,
	Baz = 10
}
frobulator["bar"] = true -- type error, boolean can't convert to number
}
```

Tables can also have explicit string indices defined in a type.

```lua
type Car = {
	Speed: number,
	Drive: (Car) -> ()
}
```

## Variadics

Here's a function that calculates the sum of an arbitrary amount of numbers.

```lua
local function addLotsOfNumbers(...)
	local sum = 0

	for _, v in {...} do
		sum += v
	end

	return sum
end
```

As expected, this function can take any value, and the typechecker won't raise a warning if you provide an invalid type, such as a `string`.

```lua
print(addLotsOfNumbers(1, 2, 3, 4, 5)) -- 15
print(addLotsOfNumbers(1, 2, "car", 4, 5)) -- attempt to add string to number
```

Instead, assign a type to the `...`, just like how you assign any other type:

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

```lua
local function addLotsOfNumbers(...: number)
```

And now, the second line raises a type error.

```lua
print(addLotsOfNumbers(1, 2, 3, 4, 5))
print(addLotsOfNumbers(1, 2, "car", 4, 5)) -- TypeError: Type `string` could not be converted into `number`.

```

However, with a type definition, the following statement does not work:

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

```lua
type addLotsOfNumbers = (...: number) -> number -- Expected type, got ':'
```

Instead, use the syntax `...type` to define a variadic type.

```lua
type addLotsOfNumbers = (...number) -> number
```

## Unions and Intersections

You can even define a type as two or more types using a union or intersection:

```lua
type numberOrString = number | string
type type1 = {foo: string}
type type2 = {bar: number}
type type1and2 = type1 & type2 -- {foo: string} & {bar: number}

local numString1: numberOrString = true -- type error
local numString2: type1and2 = {foo = "hello", bar = 1}
```

## Defining an Inferred Type

Use the `typeof` function in a type definition for inferred types:

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

```

## Defining a Type

Use the `type` keyword to define your own types:

```lua
type Vector2 = {x: number, y: number}
```

## Inference Modes

There are three type inference modes that Luau can use in `Class.Script|Scripts`:

- `--!nocheck` - Don't check types
- `--!nonstrict` - Default mode for all scripts, only asserts variable types if they are explicitly annotated
- `--!strict` - Asserts all types based off the inferred or explicitly annotated type

To use the non-default modes, add `--!nocheck` or `--!strict` to the top of your scripts. Studio highlights type mismatches in the editor and surfaces them as warnings in the Script Analyzer window.

## Types

A type annotation can be defined using the `:` operator after a variable, followed by a type definition. By default, in `nonstrict` mode, all variables are assigned the type `any`.

```lua
local foo: string = "bar"
local x: number = 5
```

There are four primitive types that can be used in an annotation:

- `nil` - no value
- `boolean` - `true` or `false`
- `number` - a numeric value
- `string` - text

Within Roblox, all classes, data types, and enums have their own types that you can check against:

```lua

> part.Touched:Connect(function(otherPart: BasePart)
> 	local brickColor: Enum.BrickColor = otherPart.BrickColor
> end)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
local somePart: Part = Instance.new("Part")
local brickColor: BrickColor = somePart.BrickColor
local material: Enum.Material = somePart.Material
```
